Refactor evaluators and SparseEncoder to use max_active_dims (#9)
arthurbr11/sentence-transformers: examples/sparse_encoder/applications/computing_embeddings/README.rst

   """
   Embedding dim: 30522
   Embedding sparsity: {'num_rows': 3, 'num_cols': 30522, 'row_non_zero_mean': 56.66666793823242, 'row_sparsity_mean': 0.9981433749198914}
   Average non-zero dimensions: 56.67
   Sparsity percentage: 99.81%
   """
   
   # Example of using max_active_dims during encoding to limit the active dimensions
   embeddings_limited = model.encode(sentences, max_active_dims=32)
   stats_limited = model.get_sparsity_stats(embeddings_limited)
   print(f"Limited embedding sparsity: {stats_limited}")
   print(f"Average non-zero dimensions: {stats_limited['row_non_zero_mean']:.2f}")
   print(f"Sparsity percentage: {stats_limited['row_sparsity_mean']:.2%}")
   """
   Limited embedding sparsity: {'num_rows': 3, 'num_cols': 30522, 'row_non_zero_mean': 32.0, 'row_sparsity_mean': 0.9989516139030457}
   Average non-zero dimensions: 32.00
   Sparsity percentage: 99.90%
   """

When you set ``max_active_dims``, the model will keep only the top-K dimensions with the highest values and set all other values to zero. This ensures your embeddings maintain a controlled level of sparsity while preserving the most important semantic information.

.. note::

>    Setting a very low ``max_active_dims`` value may reduce the quality of search results. The optimal value depends on your specific use case and dataset. Common values range from 128 to 512 dimensions, like dense embeddings dimensions.

Reviewer: Is 128 to 512 indeed common or is that LLM-generated? I'm not familiar myself but I was under the impression that dimensionalities are like ~50 for queries and ~200 for docs usually

Author: Yes it's  ~50 for queries and ~200 for docs usually but wasn't sure for the doc. Because if we are in multilingual config we might arrive to embedding with more than 200 active_dim for docs and may be up to 512 so i prefered to be a bit more vague. But i can definitely change with `~50 for queries and ~200 for docs` if you think it's better.

Controlling Sparsity with max_active_dims
-----------------------------------------

For sparse models, you can control the maximum number of active dimensions (non-zero values) in the output embeddings using the ``max_active_dims`` parameter. This is particularly useful for:

1. Reducing memory usage and storage requirements
2. Improving search efficiency in production systems
3. Controlling the trade-off between accuracy and performance

You can specify ``max_active_dims`` either when initializing the model or during encoding:

::

   from sentence_transformers import SparseEncoder

   # Initialize the SPLADE model
   model = SparseEncoder("naver/splade-cocondenser-ensembledistil")

   # Embed a list of sentences
   sentences = [
      "This framework generates embeddings for each input sentence",
      "Sentences are passed as a list of string.",
      "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog.",
   ]

   # Generate embeddings
   embeddings = model.encode(sentences)

   # Print embedding sim and sparsity
   print(f"Embedding dim: {model.get_sentence_embedding_dimension()}")

   stats = model.get_sparsity_stats(embeddings)

>    print(f"Embedding sparsity: {stats}")
>    print(f"Average non-zero dimensions: {stats['row_non_zero_mean']:.2f}")
>    print(f"Sparsity percentage: {stats['row_sparsity_mean']:.2%}")
> 
> 
>    """
>    Embedding dim: 30522
>    Embedding sparsity: {'num_rows': 3, 'num_cols': 30522, 'row_non_zero_mean': 56.66666793823242, 'row_sparsity_mean': 0.9981433749198914}
>    Average non-zero dimensions: 56.67
>    Sparsity percentage: 99.81%
>    """
>    
>    # Example of using max_active_dims during encoding
>    print("\n--- Using max_active_dims during encoding ---")
>    # Generate embeddings with limited active dimensions
>    embeddings_limited = model.encode(sentences, max_active_dims=32)
>    stats_limited = model.get_sparsity_stats(embeddings_limited)
>    print(f"Limited embedding sparsity: {stats_limited}")
>    print(f"Average non-zero dimensions: {stats_limited['row_non_zero_mean']:.2f}")
>    print(f"Sparsity percentage: {stats_limited['row_sparsity_mean']:.2%}")
> 
>    """
>    --- Using max_active_dims during encoding ---
>    Limited embedding sparsity: {'num_rows': 3, 'num_cols': 30522, 'row_non_zero_mean': 32.0, 'row_sparsity_mean': 0.9989516139030457}
>    Average non-zero dimensions: 32.00
>    Sparsity percentage: 99.90%
>    """
> 
> When you set ``max_active_dims``, the model will keep only the top-K dimensions with the highest values and set all other values to zero. This ensures your embeddings maintain a controlled level of sparsity while preserving the most important semantic information.
> 
> .. note::
> 
>    Setting a very low ``max_active_dims`` value may reduce the quality of search results. The optimal value depends on your specific use case and dataset. Common values range from 128 to 512 dimensions, like dense embeddings dimensions.
> 
> 
> One of the key benefits of controlling sparsity with ``max_active_dims`` is reduced memory usage. Here's an example showing the memory savings:
> 
> ::
> 
>    # Compare memory usage between default and limited active dimensions
>    print("\n--- Comparing memory usage ---")
>    def get_memory_size(tensor):
>        if tensor.is_sparse:
>            # For sparse tensors, only count non-zero elements
>            return (tensor._values().element_size() * tensor._values().nelement() + 
>                   tensor._indices().element_size() * tensor._indices().nelement())
>        else:
>            return tensor.element_size() * tensor.nelement()
> 
>    print(f"Original embeddings memory: {get_memory_size(embeddings) / 1024:.2f} KB")
>    print(f"Embeddings with max_active_dims=32 memory: {get_memory_size(embeddings_limited) / 1024:.2f} KB")
> 
>    """
>    --- Comparing memory usage ---
>    Original embeddings memory: 3.32 KB
>    Embeddings with max_active_dims=32 memory: 1.88 KB
>    """
> 
> As shown in the example, limiting active dimensions to 32 reduced memory usage by approximately 43%. This efficiency becomes even more significant when working with large document collections but need to be put in balance with the possible loss of quality of the embeddings representations.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Controlling Sparsity
--------------------

For sparse models, you can control the maximum number of active dimensions (non-zero values) in the output embeddings using the ``max_active_dims`` parameter. This is particularly useful for reducing memory usage and storage requirements and controlling the trade-off between accuracy and retrieval latency.

You can specify ``max_active_dims`` either when initializing the model or during encoding:

::

   from sentence_transformers import SparseEncoder

   # Initialize the SPLADE model
   model = SparseEncoder("naver/splade-cocondenser-ensembledistil")

   # Embed a list of sentences
   sentences = [
      "This framework generates embeddings for each input sentence",
      "Sentences are passed as a list of string.",
      "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog.",
   ]

   # Generate embeddings
   embeddings = model.encode(sentences)

   # Print embedding dimensionality and sparsity
   print(f"Embedding dim: {model.get_sentence_embedding_dimension()}")

   stats = model.get_sparsity_stats(embeddings)
   print(f"Embedding sparsity: {stats}")
   print(f"Average non-zero dimensions: {stats['row_non_zero_mean']:.2f}")
   print(f"Sparsity percentage: {stats['row_sparsity_mean']:.2%}")
   """
   Embedding dim: 30522
   Embedding sparsity: {'num_rows': 3, 'num_cols': 30522, 'row_non_zero_mean': 56.66666793823242, 'row_sparsity_mean': 0.9981433749198914}
   Average non-zero dimensions: 56.67
   Sparsity percentage: 99.81%
   """
   
   # Example of using max_active_dims during encoding to limit the active dimensions
   embeddings_limited = model.encode(sentences, max_active_dims=32)
   stats_limited = model.get_sparsity_stats(embeddings_limited)
   print(f"Limited embedding sparsity: {stats_limited}")
   print(f"Average non-zero dimensions: {stats_limited['row_non_zero_mean']:.2f}")
   print(f"Sparsity percentage: {stats_limited['row_sparsity_mean']:.2%}")
   """
   Limited embedding sparsity: {'num_rows': 3, 'num_cols': 30522, 'row_non_zero_mean': 32.0, 'row_sparsity_mean': 0.9989516139030457}
   Average non-zero dimensions: 32.00
   Sparsity percentage: 99.90%
   """

When you set ``max_active_dims``, the model will keep only the top-K dimensions with the highest values and set all other values to zero. This ensures your embeddings maintain a controlled level of sparsity while preserving the most important semantic information.

.. note::

   Setting a very low ``max_active_dims`` value may reduce the quality of search results. The optimal value depends on your specific use case and dataset. Common values range from 128 to 512 dimensions, like dense embeddings dimensions.

One of the key benefits of controlling sparsity with ``max_active_dims`` is reduced memory usage. Here's an example showing the memory savings:

::

   def get_sparse_embedding_memory_size(tensor):
       # For sparse tensors, only count non-zero elements
       return (tensor._values().element_size() * tensor._values().nelement() + 
              tensor._indices().element_size() * tensor._indices().nelement())

   print(f"Original embeddings memory: {get_sparse_embedding_memory_size(embeddings) / 1024:.2f} KB")
   print(f"Embeddings with max_active_dims=32 memory: {get_sparse_embedding_memory_size(embeddings_limited) / 1024:.2f} KB")
   """
   Original embeddings memory: 3.32 KB
   Embeddings with max_active_dims=32 memory: 1.88 KB
   """

As shown in the example, limiting active dimensions to 32 reduced memory usage by approximately 43%. This efficiency becomes even more significant when working with large document collections but need to be put in balance with the possible loss of quality of the embeddings representations. Note that each of the `Evaluator classes <../../../../docs/package_reference/sparse_encoder/evaluation.html>`_ has a ``max_active_dims`` parameter that can be set to control the number of active dimensions during evaluation, so you can easily compare the performance of different settings.

```
Big fan of this section, I made some minor changes:
1. I removed the list as it felt a bit LLM-generated
2. Updated the section name to just `Controlling Sparsity` so it fits on one line here:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/09fa2adb-f576-4ebd-8866-8206d4929f81)

3. Removed some whitespace and made the code block a bit smaller. The `compute_embeddings.py` has the original stuff still like printing ("--- Using max_active_dims during encoding"), but we can keep it concise in the docs snippet. 
4. Removed the dense case in `get_sparse_embedding_memory_size`, we don't use it here
5. Mention that the evaluator classes accept `max_active_dims` too so people can experiment
